Welcome, in this video, we're going to delete some tags
both directly on GitHub, and on the local system.
First, let's start out on GitHub; I'm currently logged in, and in the "website" GitHub repository.
Let's go over to the "releases" tab, then click on "Tags".
Let's say that we determine that we really weren't ready to push this tag up to GitHub.
So, I'm going to click on the "v0.1-alpha" tag, go into that page for that specific tag,
and then I have an option over here called delete. Click on the delete button,
and GitHub will warn me "Are you sure you want to delete this tag?"
Click on "Delete this tag". Now we no longer have that tag listed;
however, that tag still exists on our local side.
Let's go back over to our terminal, and we're currently in
the website Git repository on our local system,
starting off on the develop branch in a clean working directory state.
If I do a "git tag", I can see that I have all my tags listed,
including the "v0.1-alpha" tag, which we deleted on GitHub.
If I do a "git fetch -p", that will fetch all the current references,
just to make sure that I'm in sync with GitHub.
Now, let's delete the "v0.1-alpha" tag on our local system.
Type "git tag -d" for delete, followed by the name of the tag,
in our case, "v0.1-alpha", then press enter.
Git will tell us that we deleted the tag. Great, now if we do a "git tag",
it lists all the tags available on our local system,
and we should notice that we are missing the tag we just deleted.
Let's list the tags again, and this time I decide that
the other alpha tag we don't need either.
This time, I'm going to start on the local side, and then move over to GitHub.
If I go over to GitHub, I currently have four tags, including the other alpha tag.
I could delete the tag on this side, but if I wanted a
command line focused workflow, I could do it all from the terminal.
First I'm going to start off by deleting the tag on the local side:
"git tag -d", passing in the name of the tag. Once I've done that,
I can also delete the tag on the remote side by pushing nothing to the tag name.
Type "git push"; space; the name of the remote to use, which is "origin";
space, and then just colon, immediately followed by the tag name to use;
so, in our case, ":v0.2-alpha". Double check the line and then press enter.
Git responds by saying the remote tag has been deleted.
Let's check it out, and refresh the page for our tags.
Now, none of the alpha tags are listed; we only have our beta tag.